I am really excited about this video because we finally get to see some really weird concurrency stuff
in action.
So let me tell you what we're going to do between the last video in this one, I put together a little
test script.
So this is a little script I put together that's going to go through a very particular series of actions.
And as we start to run the script, we're going to be firing off a ton of requests to our server.
Once the script runs, we're going to then take a look at the consistency of data between our two databases,
and we're going to see that in some very particular cases, we can definitely get events being processed
out of order.
So let me tell you a little bit more about this little test script I put together.
Now, you do not have to run this test script.
I just put it together very quickly and I had to change a couple of other things behind the scenes to
get it to work correctly.
So we're just going to take a look at my setup rather than trying to replicate the script on your side.
So here's what the script does.
This script is going to try to create a ticket with the price of five.
It's then going to update a ticket to a price of ten and then finally update a ticket to a price of
$15.
And it's going to repeat that entire process 200 times in a row.
What's more, is that it's going to try to repeat this process all in parallel.
So in other words, simultaneously as much as we can anyways, we're going to try to run all these requests
to create an update tickets at the same time about 200 times in parallel.
Now, technically, because the way Node.js works, it's not truly in parallel, but we can imagine
that more or less kind of somewhat happening at the same time, all these requests being issued in parallel.
However, the actual update requests will occur in series, so we're going to first create the ticket.
Then only after that request is completed will we attempt to update it, and then only after that request
is completed will we attempt to update it a second time to a final price of 15.
So let's think about how this is actually going to play out on our back end servers.
So over here on the top left hand side, we've got these requests being issued.
Now, I'm only going to show one set of requests right here.
So one series of create update, update.
But again, this is going to happen at 200 times more or less in parallel.
So we're going to first make the request.
To create a ticket with the price of five, that's going to go directly to our ticket service.
The ticket service is going to get then going to save a new record inside of its database with the price
of five.
So let's say maybe it gets an idea of queue and a price of five, and that's it.
That request has been promised to be processed.
Then the same instant that we create that actual record inside the database, we're also going to emit
an event from our ticket service of ticket created.
That event will then go off to our ticket created channel and then eventually be assigned to a instance
of the order service.
For the purposes of this test, I am running four different copies of the Order Service.
Right now you are running one copy, one instance of it inside of your Kubernetes cluster.
I'm running four separate copies just to kind of instigate some little concurrency issues here.
So this event will be processed by one of our order services.
Maybe it gets processed by instance A And so inside of our orders database, we would replicate some
data from that event into our order database.
So we'd end up with a ticket ID in here of queue and a price of five.
So then next up, we're going to make the request to update the ticket to a price of ten.
So we're going to process that update to ten and we're going to update or make the request to try to
update the ticket to a price of 15 as well.
Now because my script that I put together is running all these three requests in series.
I'm going to expect my ticket database to always end up with every ticket having a price of 15.
No two ways about it.
I really expect the ticket database to have some very consistent data.
Should absolutely have every single ticket with the price of 15.
However, we're going to see it very quickly.
That because we are creating so many different events here.
So for every single ticket, we're creating a total of three events.
And all these events are going to be thrown out to these four separate copies of the Order service.
There might be some scenarios or some cases where these update events get processed slightly out of
order.
So this ticket update to a price of ten might get assigned to service a and this update for a price
of 15 might get assigned to service DX Now in theory, we really, really hope for the Price ten event
to get processed first.
So what we really want to have happen is see this thing get updated to a price of ten so that thing
is now processed.
And then this other event down here, the second update event, get processed and have this record end
up with a price of 15.
That is what we really, really want to have happen is that would lead to our data being consistent
between the tickets database and the orders database.
However, you're going to see very quickly that in some number of cases, because we are emitting so
many events and they're going to so many instances of the order service, there might be some scenarios
where we accidentally process the update to a price of 15/1.
And then only after that process, this other update, which it technically should have been processed.
Second, so process this one right here and end up with a price of ten.
And so that would be a very bad scenario.
We would not want to see any tickets with a price or a final price of ten, because then we would have
some inconsistent data between our orders database and the tickets database.
So again, I just want to make sure it's super clear after I run the script, I'm going to expect that
all the tickets inside the tickets database have a price of 15, and I feel pretty confident that it's
going to happen.
However, I would really want to also double check and make sure that all the tickets inside the owners
database end up with the price of 15.
And if we see any with the price of ten, that is going to be a pretty bad sign.
That is going to be a sign that there are some major concurrency issues inside of our app and we're
going to have to somehow fix those issues.
So now that we understand this entire test setup, we understand what we are really looking for at the
end of the day.
Let me show you one last piece of this testing setup.
So to actually figure out how many tickets have a price of ten and a price of 15 across these two services,
I set up two terminal windows right here.
The one on the right is running a mongo shell.
So this is a mongo shell to the orders.
DB So I can use this terminal window over here to essentially make queries directly to my orders database.
For example, I can write out DB tickets, find that will return all the tickets I've created over time.
On the right hand side is a mongo shell to my tickets database.
And so very similar.
I could run right out a query right here that's going to be executed against my tickets database.
For example, DB tickets find.
Like.
So now for the purposes of this test, I'm going to clear out and delete all the tickets I have inside
of both databases.
I'll then run my script and we could run a query or two and figure out whether or not these kind of
consistency issues are in play.
So inside both my databases, I'm going to delete all my different tickets.
So inside of orders, I'll do a DB that tickets remove.
And then over here inside of tickets.
I'll do a DB tickets.
Remove.
Yes.
So now both databases.
Zero tickets.
So I'm now going to run my little script.
That's going to go through and create those 200 separate tickets.
So here we go.
All right.
So we'll see just about 200 requests.
I don't know.
I wasn't really counting.
I don't know if you were, but that made 200 separate tickets and then issued a first update in a second
update for each one.
If I now go back over to my scaffold window, I'll see that there has been a tremendous number of events
published and processed.
Take a look at that.
That's that is all the events over those 600 requests in total.
To create and then update twice.
Now, in theory, everything has been processed.
Now, here's the moment of truth.
We're going to first take a look on the right hand side.
We're going to take a look and try to count out the number of tickets with a price of ten inside of
the tickets database.
Now, hopefully we should see zero tickets with the price of ten inside the tickets database.
That is the goal.
That's what we're hoping for.
And I have a pretty high degree of certainty that's going to be the case.
So I'll do a DB tickets.
Find.
For a price of ten.
And I'm going to get the number of records that match that criteria right there.
So I end up with zero perfect.
That is what we want.
That means that after we made the three requests to the ticket service, there were no tickets inside
of here that had a price of ten.
If there were any that had a price of ten, that would mean that we have got some serious issues inside
of our app.
But we end up with zero out of ten, so everything looks good there.
So we're going to run that same query on the order database.
And hopefully in a perfect world, there are going to be no records with a price of ten.
If there are no records of the price of ten, that means we processed all these different update events
in the correct order.
So let's run a query.
Find how many were marked with a price of ten.
And go from there.
So I'm going to do a DB tickets.
Find the price of ten.
And I'll get the number that have a press of ten.
And you can see in this case I end up with just one.
Now, that's a little bit of a kind of disappointment here.
Well, partial disappointment.
So, again, in a perfect world, we would have seen zero here.
Zero would have meant that we'd processed all events in the correct order inside of our order service.
But we saw just one that has a price of ten that just you know, as I run the script, every single
time I run it, there's going to be a slightly different number that end up with the price of ten.
The last time I ran it, I actually end up with eight separate ones that had a price of ten.
And so eight was a little bit more compelling to say, Hey, look, we got a major concurrency issue
here than just one.
But even with one, we can still say that one record out of 200.
So 0.5% of the time we end up with some major data consistency issue between our order database and
the tickets database.
And actually, I'm sure I could probably run the script another time.
I'll make another 200.
And I'll bet you will see that we're going to end up with more than one additional record.
So this time it looks like there were two now.
So there was previously one with the price of ten.
So in this latest run, I now ended up with two additional records being out of sync.
I'll do it just one more time.
Hopefully I'll get some kind of convincing evidence here.
There we go.
All right.
Fantastic.
So now we got seven records in that latest run, seven out of 200 that are now out of sync.
If I go and take a look at the ticket service, there are still zero inside the ticket service that
a price of ten, which is again, very good, 100% what we expect.
But inside the order database, that's one query here on the left, there are now.
Ten out of 600 or in the latest run, seven out of 200 that are out of sync.
So seven out of 200, that's kind of bad odds in my opinion.
I would not want to expect to see that seven out of every 200 series of requests to create and then
update update a ticket fail catastrophically like this where we end up with our data being out of sync.
So I would say that right now seven out of 200, that's pretty bad and we definitely don't want to have
that.
So at this point in time, I apologize for the length, this video, but hopefully we can see that without
too much finagling, we can really start to break some event handling or orders of events being processed
inside of our application.
So it's pretty clear to me at least that we need to implement some kind of concurrency control here.
We need something to make sure that we process these events in the correct order.
Now lastly, I want to mention really quickly, even though I say that we didn't really have to finagle
a lot to make this thing break, just, you know, I really did have to actually mess around with this
application a lot.
I spent the last 3 hours before this video finally coming up with these series of requests you see right
here, and also making a couple of changes to the infrastructure as well.
So specifically spooling up for copies of the order service.
There are technically four copies of the ticket service as well.
So I really, truly did have to try to break this stuff.
So just, you know, it is not inherently flimsy or anything like that.
And using this event based pattern doesn't mean that we're going to automatically start to break every
time.
However, at the same time, I really just mean to say that there is the potential for stuff going wrong,
and so it would behoove us to spend a little bit of time to try to figure out this concurrency stuff.
So just a quick little note there.
Don't feel like this stuff is horribly flimsy or anything like that because again, I really had to
try to break it.
Okay.
So enough talking.
At this point, it is clear that there are some concurrency issues.
We need something additional inside of our app to make sure that we process all these events in the
correct order.
So let's figure that step out in the next video.